The Operational Ontology for Oncology is a produc of the combined effort of physicists, physician, informaticist and other members of  members of several professional societies including the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM), 
American Society of Radiation Oncologoy (ASTRO), the Canadian Organization of Medical Phyics (COMP), Canadian Association of Radiation Oncology (CARO), and the European Society of Therapeutic Radiation Oncology (ESTRO). 
Each of these professional societies have endorsed the O3 standards. O3 is created, extended and maintainted under the auspicies of the American Association of Medical Physicis (AAPM). All work in coding that supports files supporting promulgation 
of the O3 standard have been created at the University of Michigan. The license protecting use and distribution of O3 is maintained by the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan. 

All applications of O3 should cite the foundational reference 
Mayo CS, Feng MU, Brock KK, Kudner R, Balter P, Buchsbaum JC, Caissie A, Covington E, Daugherty EC, Dekker AL, Fuller CD, Hallstrom AL, Hong DS, Hong JC, Kamran SC, Katsoulakis E, Kildea J, Krauze AV, Kruse JJ, McNutt T, Mierzwa M, Moreno A, Palta JR, Popple R, Purdie TG, Richardson S, Sharp GC, Satomi S, Tarbox LR, Venkatesan AM, Witztum A, Woods KE, Yao Y, Farahani K, Aneja S, Gabriel PE, Hadjiiski L, Ruan D, Siewerdsen JH, Bratt S, Casagni M, Chen S, Christodouleas JC, DiDonato A, Hayman J, Kapoor R, Kravitz S, Sebastian S, Von Siebenthal M, Bosch W, Hurkmans C, Yom SS, Xiao Y. Operational Ontology for Oncology (O3): A Professional Society-Based, Multistakeholder, Consensus-Driven Informatics Standard Supporting Clinical and Research Use of Real-World Data From Patients Treated for Cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2023 Nov 1;117(3):533-550. doi: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2023.05.033. Epub 2023 May 26. PMID: 37244628; PMCID: PMC10741247.

All communications regarding use of O3 should be directed to cmayo@med.umich.edu  or to the AAPM Big Data Subcommittee (https://www.aapm.org/org/structure/default.asp?committee_code=BDS)
The O3 website provides the tools for reviewing current, future and prior versions of the O3 standard at https://aapmbdsc.azurewebsites.net/
